>>ANNOUNCER: TODAY ON
THE JOHN ANKERBERG SHOW:
WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO YOU
ONE MINUTE AFTER YOU DIE?
STATISTICS TELL US:
ONE HUNDRED AND SIX PEOPLE
DIE EVERY MINUTE. FIFTY-FIVE
THOUSAND PEOPLE DIE EVERY DAY.
FOUR-AND-A HALF MILLION PEOPLE
DIE EVERY MONTH. AND FIFTY-SIX
MILLION PEOPLE DIE EACH YEAR.
IF YOU LIVE FOR SEVENTY
YEARS, OVER YOUR LIFETIME,
CLOSE TO FOUR BILLION PEOPLE
WILL HAVE DIED ON EARTH.
AND EVENTUALLY DEATH WILL
COME TO YOU AND TO ME.
NONE OF US WILL ESCAPE IT.
WHAT DOES THE BIBLE SAY
EACH OF US WILL EXPERIENCE
ONE MINUTE AFTER WE DIE.
MY GUEST TODAY IS THEOLOGIAN
AND BEST-SELLING AUTHOR,
DR. ERWIN LUTZER, SENIOR
MINISTER OF MOODY CHURCH IN
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, WHO HAS
WRITTEN THE BOOK,
"ONE MINUTE AFTER YOU DIE."
WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN US
FOR THIS SPECIAL EDITION OF
THE JOHN ANKERBERG SHOW.
>>JOHN ANKERBERG: WELCOME TO
OUR PROGRAM.
I'M JOHN ANKERBERG.
THANKS FOR JOINING ME TODAY.
WE HAVE ONE OF THESE RARE
TOPICS THAT APPLIES TO EVERY
ONE OF YOU THAT IS WATCHING.
WHETHER YOU'RE HERE IN
AMERICA OR CANADA OR RUSSIA
OR EUROPE OR INDIA OR AFRICA
OR SOUTH AMERICA, THIS TOPIC
APPLIES TO EVERYBODY THAT IS
WATCHING. WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT DEATH AND WHAT YOU WILL
EXPERIENCE ONE MINUTE AFTER
YOU DIE. AND MY GUEST TODAY
IS MY GOOD FRIEND,
DR. ERWIN LUTZER.
HE IS THE PASTOR OF
THE HISTORIC MOODY CHURCH
IN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
AND, ERWIN, WHY IS THIS
SO IMPORTANT TO EVERYBODY
THAT'S LISTENING?
>>DR. ERWIN LUTZER: WELL,
JOHN, FIRST OF ALL I WANT
TO SAY WHAT A DELIGHT IT IS
TO BE HERE TO DISCUSS THIS
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT TOPIC.
AND WE WELCOME ALL
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE LISTENING.
BUT, YOU KNOW, THE BIBLE
TEACHES THAT GOD ACTUALLY
HAS PUT ETERNITY IN OUR
HEARTS. I THINK ATHEISTS EVEN
WHEN THEY COME TO DIE ARE
WELL AWARE THAT THERE IS
SOMETHING ON THE OTHER SIDE.
AND THE BIBLE SAYS, "IT IS
APPOINTED UNTO MAN ONCE TO
DIE, AND AFTER THAT
THE JUDGMENT." AND TRY AS
WE MIGHT TO PUT DEATH OUT OF
OUR MINDS, WHEN IT'S OUR TIME
TO DIE I CAN ASSURE YOU
THAT OUR MINDS WILL BE VERY
FOCUSED ON WHAT LIES ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE CURTAIN.
>>ANKERBERG: YES. YOU WERE
ASKED AS A PASTOR TO DO
A FUNERAL, AND IT WAS
A VERY KIND OF STRANGE
CIRCUMSTANCE. TELL US
ABOUT THAT.
>>LUTZER: YES. WHAT HAPPENED
IS, I RECEIVED A CALL FROM
A FUNERAL HOME, AND THEY ASKED
ME TO COME OVER AND TO SPEAK
BRIEFLY. NOW, WHEN I GOT THERE
THE SON WHOSE FATHER HAD DIED
TOOK ME ASIDE AND SAID,
"WE WANT YOU TO BE VERY
BRIEF." AS A MATTER OF FACT,
WHAT HE SAID IS, "NOTHING THAT
YOU SAY WILL BE TOO SHORT."
HE SAID, "WE DON'T BELIEVE
IN GOD. MY FATHER DIDN'T
BELIEVE IN GOD. WE ARE
ATHEISTS. AND THE ONLY REASON
YOU'RE HERE IS BECAUSE
A RELATIVE THOUGHT THAT
A MINISTER SHOULD BE
PRESENT." SO I SAID,
"I'M GOING TO MAKE
AN AGREEMENT WITH YOU.
I'M NOT GOING TO TALK ABOUT
YOUR FATHER." BUT I SAID,
"IN THE FEW MOMENTS THAT
I AM GOING TO SPEAK, I'M GOING
TO BE TALKING ABOUT JESUS
CHRIST AND ETERNITY."
WELL, WHAT COULD HE DO?
HE HAD TO ALLOW ME TO DO THAT.
BUT YOU KNOW, JOHN, JUST THINK
OF WHAT THAT MAN WAS
EXPERIENCING AFTER HIS DEATH.
>>ANKERBERG: YES, WHILE YOU
WERE PARKING THE CAR,
WHILE YOU WERE MAKING
THE ARRANGEMENTS, WHILE YOU
WERE TALKING WITH THE FAMILY,
THE MAN THAT WAS IN
THE CASKET, ACCORDING TO
THE BIBLE, WAS WHAT?
>>LUTZER: YOU KNOW, WE'RE
GOING TO BE LOOKING AT THIS
IN MUCH MORE DETAIL, BUT IN
THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER OF
LUKE, JESUS TELLS A STORY.
AND I DON'T BELIEVE THAT
IT WAS A PARABLE. I THINK
IT'S AN ACTUAL STORY.
HE TELLS THE STORY OF A RICH
MAN WHO DIED AND ALSO A POOR
MAN WHO DIED. AND THE POINT
THAT JESUS WAS MAKING IS
NOT THAT RICHES LEAD YOU
TO HELL; BUT IT IS TRUE THAT
THE RICH MAN ENDED UP IN WHAT
IS CALLED HADES. AND WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO DISCUSS
THAT ON THIS SHOW. AND IT SAYS
ALSO THAT THE POOR MAN,
WHOSE NAME WAS LAZARUS,
WAS IN ABRAHAM'S BOSOM.
THE QUESTION IS: WHAT WAS
THE RICH MAN EXPERIENCING?
WELL, AS THE BIBLE CLEARLY
INDICATES, HE WAS IN A STATE
OF PAIN, OF TORMENT, AND
HE WAS GOING THROUGH ALL OF
THESE EXPERIENCES.
AND I BELIEVE THAT, THAT RICH
MAN IN CHICAGO, WHILE I SPOKE
BRIEFLY AND THEN THERE WAS
A RATHER LONG EULOGY
ABOUT HIM AND ALL OF
HIS ACCOMPLISHMENTS, HE WAS
ALSO IN HADES, IN THAT PLACE
THAT IS DESCRIBED AS ONE OF
ABANDONMENT AND TORMENT.
AND RIGHT FROM THE BEGINNING
WE HAVE TO MAKE THIS VERY
CLEAR: THAT THERE IS A BIG
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN WHAT
YOU SEE WHEN SOMEONE DIES AND
YOU SEE THEIR LIFELESS BODY,
AND WHAT THEY ARE
EXPERIENCING. BECAUSE AFTER
THEY'VE DIED, WHAT THEY FIND
IS THEY ARE IN AN ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT WORLD, A DIFFERENT
REALM. AND DEATH IS NOT
A POSITIVE EXPERIENCE
FOR EVERYONE.
>>ANKERBERG: YES, AND YOU
SAY THAT NOT EVERYBODY'S
GOING TO HAVE THE SAME KIND
OF EXPERIENCE. YOU HAVE
THOSE WHO KNOW THE LORD
HAVE ONE KIND OF EXPERIENCE
AND THOSE THAT DO NOT KNOW
THE LORD HAVE ANOTHER.
EXPLAIN THAT.
>>LUTZER: WELL, FIRST OF
ALL, LET ME SAY THAT THOSE
WHO KNOW JESUS CHRIST AS
SAVIOR, THEY WILL BE IN
HIS PRESENCE. THEY WILL BE
BLESSED. WE CAN CALL THAT
PARADISE; WE CAN CALL THAT
HEAVEN; AND THEY HAVE THAT
ASSURANCE. AND ON THESE
PROGRAMS WE'RE GOING TO BE
TALKING ABOUT THAT ASSURANCE
THAT THEY HAVE. BECAUSE,
AFTER ALL, JESUS IS THE ONLY
SAVIOR. NOW, WE HAVE MANY
PROPHETS AND GURUS WHO TELL
US HOW TO LIVE, BUT NOBODY
EXCEPT JESUS CAN ACTUALLY
WIPE AWAY OUR SIN AND
PREPARE US FOR HEAVEN.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, OF COURSE,
ARE THOSE WHO ARE GOING TO BE
IN TORMENT. AND EVEN HADES
THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE TALKING
ABOUT IS NOT YET HELL.
SO IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR
PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND-AND
THIS IS CRITICAL-THERE IS NO
MIDDLE GROUND. THERE IS
NO PLACE WHERE YOU SAY,
"WELL, I'M NOT GOOD ENOUGH
FOR HEAVEN, BUT I'M TOO GOOD
FOR HELL, SO THERE'S A MIDDLE
PLACE." NO, THERE ISN'T.
IT IS ONLY HEAVEN OR HADES,
WHICH LATER ON IS THROWN
INTO HELL, A VERY
STARK CONTRAST.
>>ANKERBERG: YES, I LOVED
WHAT YOU SAID AT
THE BEGINNING HERE, THAT
PEOPLE, GOD HAS PUT A DESIRE
IN THEIR HEARTS OF ETERNITY,
AND THEY HAVE A DESIRE TO
KNOW WHAT'S BEYOND DEATH,
TO PEEK BEHIND THE CURTAIN OF
DEATH. AND THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF AREAS THAT OUR SOCIETY
AND NATIONS AROUND THE WORLD,
PEOPLE IN DIFFERENT NATIONS
AROUND THE WORLD, HAVE TRIED
TO USE TO GET INFORMATION
ABOUT WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
AFTER DEATH. ONE OF THOSE
HAS BEEN CHANNELING TO TRY
TO GET A GLIMPSE OF WHAT
LIES BEYOND THE GRAVE.
WHAT DOES THE BIBLE SAY
ABOUT CHANNELING?
>>LUTZER: YOU KNOW,
CHANNELING IS WHEN YOU GO TO
A MEDIUM WHO SUPPOSEDLY
CONNECTS YOU WITH PEOPLE WHO
HAVE DIED. AND SOMETIMES
THERE HAVE EVEN BEEN SHOWS ON
TELEVISION WHERE YOU GO TO
THIS PERSON AND HE SAYS,
"I CAN CONTACT YOUR MOTHER,
YOUR FATHER, AND WE'LL
TALK." THE BIBLE FORBIDS ALL
OF THAT. HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES THERE WAS A BISHOP
WHO DID NOT BELIEVE
THE BIBLE, AND HE DECIDED
TO TRY TO CONTACT HIS SON
WHO HAD COMMITTED SUICIDE.
SO THE BISHOP, PIKE WAS HIS
NAME, HE WENT TO A MEDIUM,
AND THE MEDIUM PURPORTEDLY
CONNECTED HIM WITH HIS BOY.
AND HE ASKED HIS SON, AMONG
OTHER THINGS, "DO YOU HEAR
ABOUT JESUS ON THE OTHER
SIDE?" AND THE SON SAID,
"NO, WE DON'T HEAR A LOT
ABOUT JESUS ON THE OTHER
SIDE." JOHN, FROM MY HEART
TO YOURS AND TO THE MANY
PEOPLE WHO ARE LISTENING,
IF, WHEN YOU DIE, YOU'RE IN
A PLACE WHERE YOU DON'T HEAR
MUCH ABOUT JESUS, YOU'RE IN
DEEP TROUBLE. THE BIBLE
FORBIDS CHANNELING,
AND I'LL TELL YOU WHY.
IT SPEAKS ABOUT FAMILIAR
SPIRITS; THAT IS, THERE ARE
DEMONS WHO KNOW ALL ABOUT
US. AND IF THAT CHANNELER,
THAT MEDIUM, IS ABLE TO
CONNECT WITH ONE OF THOSE
DEMONS, THE DEMONS SPEAK AND
THEY SUPPLY INFORMATION.
BE ASSURED THAT NO ONE HAS
EVER TALKED TO THE DEAD AND
FOUND OUT WHAT LIES ON
THE OTHER SIDE. IN FACT,
IN THE SCRIPTURE WE READ
IN ISAIAH, "AND WHEN
THEY SAY TO YOU, 'CONSULT
THE MEDIUMS AND THE SPIRITISTS
WHO WHISPER AND MUTTER.
SHOULD NOT A PEOPLE CONSULT
THEIR GOD? SHOULD THEY CONSULT
THE DEAD ON BEHALF OF
THE LIVING?' " AND THE ANSWER
TO THAT QUESTION IS NO.
THAT IS AN UNRELIABLE WAY TO
TRY TO FIND OUT WHAT HAPPENS
ON THE OTHER SIDE.
>>ANKERBERG: AND MANY OTHER
PEOPLE HAVE TRIED DIFFERENT
WAYS, SUCH AS REINCARNATION,
AND NOW WE'VE HAD THIS
PHENOMENON OF A LOT OF
PEOPLE HAVING NEAR-DEATH
EXPERIENCES. YOU'VE GOT MANY
NEW AGE WRITERS AND
PHILOSOPHERS, PEOPLE IN
HOLLYWOOD EVEN MAKING MOVIES
ABOUT THESE NEAR-DEATH
EXPERIENCES. THERE ARE
PSYCHOLOGISTS WHO HAVE BEEN
STUDYING THIS.
WHAT DOES THE BIBLE HAVE TO
SAY ABOUT REINCARNATION AND
THEN NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES?
>>LUTZER: WELL, LET'S TALK
ABOUT REINCARNATION.
I HAVE TO TELL YOU ABOUT
A STORY, JOHN, THAT I HAD.
I WAS SITTING ON A,
ON AN AIRPLANE AND NEXT TO ME
WAS A WOMAN BY THE NAME OF
SHIRLEY. AND WHEN SHE FOUND
OUT I WAS A PASTOR SHE SAID,
"YOU'RE SO FORTUNATE; BECAUSE
I'D LIKE TO BE ABLE TO PREACH
TO PEOPLE AND TELL THEM ABOUT
MY EXPERIENCES AND EVEN
BRING HEALING TO THEM.
AND FURTHERMORE," SHE SAID,
"I CAN PROVE REINCARNATION."
I SAID, "TELL ME MORE."
SHE SAID, "EVEN WHEN I WAS
A CHILD I HAD VISIONS AND
DREAMS ABOUT A HOME IN
VERMONT HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES, THAT I'D NEVER BEEN
TO. AND AS AN ADULT I VISITED
THE HOME AND I REALIZED IT
WAS EXACTLY AS THOSE VISIONS
AND DREAMS INDICATED."
NOW, I'M SITTING RIGHT NEXT
TO HER, SO I SMILED AND
I SAID TO HER, "SHIRLEY,
I WANT TO TELL YOU SOMETHING.
THERE'S NO SUCH THING AS
A TRANSMIGRATION OF SOULS.
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE IN
THE BIBLE FOR REINCARNATION.
BUT," I SAID, "THERE IS
EVIDENCE OF THE TRANSMIGRATION
OF DEMONS." I SAID,
"THE INFORMATION THAT
YOU ARE GETTING IS FROM
A DEMONIC SPIRIT, AN EVIL
SPIRIT WHO OBVIOUSLY KNOWS
ABOUT THIS HOUSE IN VERMONT
AND IS COMMUNICATING THIS
INFORMATION TO YOU."
AND SHE SAID, "OH NO!"
SHE SAID, "I DO CONNECT WITH
SPIRITS, BUT I RECEIVE
NO INFORMATION FROM EVIL
SPIRITS." I SAID, "TELL ME,
HOW DO YOU TELL
THE DIFFERENCE?" AND, JOHN,
SHE SAID, "I RECEIVE ONLY
THOSE SPIRITS THAT COME TO ME
CLOTHED IN LIGHT."
WELL, YOU PROBABLY ALREADY
KNOW THE VERSE OF SCRIPTURE
THAT I SHARED WITH HER,
SECOND CORINTHIANS 11, WHERE
THE APOSTLE PAUL SAYS THAT
"SATAN HIMSELF IS TRANSFORMED
INTO AN ANGEL OF LIGHT."
AND I NEED TO SAY IT WITH
EMPHASIS, THAT MUCH THAT
WE HEAR TODAY ABOUT
ENLIGHTENMENT IS ACTUALLY
FROM THE DEMONIC WORLD.
REINCARNATION IS NOT A WAY
TO FIND OUT WHAT HAPPENS ON
THE OTHER SIDE. NOW,
YOU ALSO MENTIONED NEAR-DEATH
EXPERIENCES.
>>ANKERBERG: LET'S HOLD ON
TO THAT ONE BECAUSE WE NEED
TO TAKE A BREAK.
AND I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE
WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU HAVE
TO SAY ON THAT, NEAR-DEATH
EXPERIENCES, AND SO I WANT
A FULL ANSWER ON THAT ONE.
SO, FOLKS, STICK WITH US.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK.
>>ANNOUNCER: IF YOU WOULD LIKE
ALL 4 TELEVISION PROGRAMS IN
OUR NEW SERIES: "WHAT WILL
HAPPEN TO YOU ONE MINUTE
AFTER YOU DIE?" THEY ARE
AVAILABLE ON DVD FOR A GIFT
OF $49 U.S. IF YOU LIVE IN
IN AMERICA OR CANADA YOU MAY
ORDER THIS SERIES BY CALLING
US AT 1-800-805-3030.
IF YOU LIVE IN OTHER COUNTRIES
YOU MAY ORDER THESE PROGRAMS
AT OUR WEBSITE AT JASHOW.ORG.
>>ANKERBERG: ALRIGHT, WE'RE
BACK, AND WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT A FASCINATING TOPIC
THAT APPLIES TO EVERYBODY
THAT'S WATCHING. IT APPLIES
TO ME, AND IT APPLIES
DR. LUTZER WHO'S OUR
GUEST TODAY, THE PASTOR OF
THE HISTORIC MOODY CHURCH
IN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
THE TOPIC IS THIS; WE ALL
KNOW WE'RE GOING TO DIE
SOMEDAY. WHEN YOU DO DIE,
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN TO
YOU ONE MINUTE AFTER YOU DIE?
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
PEOPLE HAVE USED, OR ONE OF
THE MEANS PEOPLE HAVE USED
TO TRY TO GATHER INFORMATION
ABOUT PEEKING BEHIND
THE CURTAIN OF DEATH, SEEING
WHAT'S ON THE OTHER SIDE, IS
THIS THING OF NEAR-DEATH
EXPERIENCES. EXPLAIN WHAT
THEY ARE, AND THEN GIVE SOME
ILLUSTRATIONS, AND THEN,
WHAT DOES THE BIBLE SAY?
>>LUTZER: THIS IS
AN INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT TOPIC,
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT THERE
IS LOTS OF DECEPTION GOING
ON WHEN IT COMES TO
NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES.
A NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCE IS
WHERE SOMEBODY IS ABOUT TO
DIE, AND THEY MAY ACTUALLY
DIE, AT LEAST THEORETICALLY,
AND THEN THEY COME BACK TO
LIFE. SO THEN THEY CAN TELL,
SUPPOSEDLY, WHAT LIES ON
THE OTHER SIDE.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS, DO THEY
HAVE ACCURATE INFORMATION?
FOR EXAMPLE THERE'S A WOMAN
BY THE NAME OF BETTY EADIE
THAT WROTE A BOOK ENTITLED
"EMBRACED BY THE LIGHT."
SHE APPARENTLY HAD
A NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCE,
CAME BACK AND SAID THAT
SHE MET JESUS, AND THERE IS
NO JUDGMENT AND EVERYONE CAN
GO INTO THE OTHER SIDE WITHOUT
ANY REGRETS. I REMEMBER
A WOMAN WHO SAID THE VERY
SAME THING TO ME.
SHE SAID, "I ALMOST DIED.
I DIED. I CAME BACK TO LIFE.
JESUS, DURING THAT PERIOD OF
TIME WHERE I WAS DEAD,
TOOK ME BY THE HAND AND SAID,
'HERE'S A BUDDHIST PATH;
HERE'S AN ISLAMIC PATH;
HERE'S A HINDU PATH;
HERE'S A CHRISTIAN PATH.
BUT, JUST LIKE SPOKES IN
A WHEEL, THEY ALL LEAD TO
THE HUB CALLED HEAVEN."
WELL, OF COURSE, I TRIED TO
HELP HER TO SEE THAT SHE WAS
BEING DECEIVED, BECAUSE
WE ALREADY MENTIONED IN THIS
PROGRAM HOW SATAN TRANSFORMS
HIMSELF TO AN ANGEL OF
LIGHT, AND THERE IS NOTHING
THAT THE DEVIL WOULD WANT
MORE THAN TO MAKE US THINK
THAT DEATH IS THE SAME
EXPERIENCE FOR EVERYONE,
A POSITIVE EXPERIENCE.
WELL, IT IS NOT. BECAUSE
JESUS SAID THESE WORDS,
"I AM THE WAY, THE TRUTH AND
THE LIFE. NO MAN COMES
TO THE FATHER BUT BY ME."
IN OTHER WORDS, YOU CAN'T
GET TO THE FATHER WITHOUT
JESUS CHRIST, AND THERE ARE
POWERFUL REASONS WHY THAT IS
THE CASE.
>>ANKERBERG: WE'VE ALSO,
BOTH OF US HAVE KNOWN
A HEART DOCTOR.
I'VE HAD HIM ON THE PROGRAM,
DR. MAURICE RAWLINGS, WHO
WAS NOT A CHRISTIAN AND WAS
WORKING ON PATIENTS WHO HAD
THESE NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES
WHILE THEY WERE ON
THE TREADMILL. THEY WOULD DIE
AND HE WOULD RESUSCITATE THEM.
AND ONE GUY, WHILE HE WAS
DYING, SAID, "DOCTOR, DOCTOR,
YOU'VE GOT TO SAVE ME,
I'M IN HELL." HE SAYS,
YOU KNOW, "KEEP YOUR HELL
TO YOURSELF. I'M TRYING
TO SAVE YOUR LIFE."
AND HE CAME BACK EVERY TIME,
AND HE, WHEN HE WOULD BE
RESUSCITATED, SAID, "DOCTOR
YOU'VE GOT TO PRAY FOR ME."
SO HE MADE UP A PRAYER, AND
HE SAID, "OKAY, DEAR JESUS,
I'M A SINNER, YOU KNOW,
I'M PUTTING ALL MY TRUST
IN YOU. FORGIVE ME. HELP ME
TO LIVE. IF YOU DO, I'M ON
THE HOOK TO YOU."
AND THE GUY STILL HAD THESE
NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES, BUT
NOW ALL OF A SUDDEN HE HAD
PEACE. AND WE HAD AN AUDIENCE
AT THAT TIME, AND THE GUY
THAT, THAT HAD HAPPENED TO
WAS SITTING IN THE AUDIENCE.
HE CATALOGED OVER 300 HELL
EXPERIENCES AT THAT TIME AND
WROTE THEM INTO A BOOK.
SO WHEN PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES,
IF THEY'RE GOING TO TAKE
A COUNT OF ALL OF
THE INFORMATION THAT'S
AVAILABLE, WHAT DO YOU DO
WITH THESE PEOPLE THAT
END UP IN HELL?
>>LUTZER: WELL, EXACTLY.
AND, JOHN, YOU'VE JUST GIVEN
SOME POWERFUL INFORMATION.
THE FACT IS THAT THERE CAN
BE MUCH DECEPTION HERE,
BECAUSE NOT EVERYBODY HAS
THAT POSITIVE EXPERIENCE OF
LIGHT. THERE INDEED MAY BE
TIMES WHEN PEOPLE ARE
IN TORMENT. AS A MATTER
OF FACT, THE BIBLE TEACHES
THAT. YOU KNOW, RECENTLY
I WAS SPEAKING AT AN EVENT,
AND A MAN CAME TO ME AND SAID
THAT HIS MOTHER WAS NOT
A BELIEVER. IN FACT, SHE WAS
VERY MUCH OPPOSED TO
THE CHRISTIAN FAITH.
AND AS SHE WAS DYING SHE SAID,
"GOD, HELP ME! I AM BURNING
IN FLAMES." SO IF YOU WANT
TO USE NEAR-DEATH EXPERIENCES,
WE HAVE TO AT LEAST HAVE
SOME BALANCE.
BUT MY CONTENTION IS THIS:
RATHER THAN DISCUSSING
THE EXPERIENCE THAT PEOPLE HAD
NEAR DEATH, IT'S MUCH BETTER
IF WE TAKE AS AN AUTHORITY
SOMEBODY WHO ACTUALLY
WAS DEAD, AND WAS PUT IN
THE GRAVE, AND DID RISE FROM
THE GRAVE, AND HE'S THE ONE
WHO CAN SPEAK WITH AUTHORITY.
I LOVE THE WORDS OF SCRIPTURE.
JESUS SAID IN REVELATION 1:18,
"I AM HE THAT LIVETH
AND WAS DEAD AND AM ALIVE
FOREVERMORE, AND I HAVE
THE KEYS OF DEATH AND OF
HADES." JOHN, AT THE END OF
THE DAY WHAT WE MUST ALWAYS
RECOGNIZE IS THAT OUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH JESUS
CHRIST DETERMINES OUR
DESTINY. HE'S THE ONE WHO HAS
THE KEY OF DEATH AND OF HADES.
AND HE'S THE ONE THAT
SUPERVISES; HE'S THE ONE
WHO OPENS DOORS AND CLOSES
DOORS. SO OUR RELATIONSHIP
WITH HIM IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT.
>>ANKERBERG: NOW, LET'S USE
THE BIBLE AS AN AUTHORITY
AND LET'S USE THE OLD
TESTAMENT AND THE NEW
TESTAMENT. TALK ABOUT
WHAT THE WORD "SHEOL" MEANS
IN THE OLD TESTAMENT.
>>LUTZER: THE WORD "SHEOL"
OCCURS IN THE OLD TESTAMENT
SIXTY-FIVE TIMES. THIRTY-ONE
TIMES IT IS TRANSLATED "HELL";
THE OTHER THIRTY-ONE TIMES IT
IS TRANSLATED "THE GRAVE";
AND THREE TIMES "THE PIT".
NOW, BECAUSE OF THE FACT
THAT IT IS TRANSLATED
DIFFERENTLY, THERE COULD BE
SOME CONFUSION. BUT WHEN
YOU LOOK AT ALL OF THE TEXTS,
YOU RECOGNIZE THAT HADES
ACTUALLY IS THE SHADOWY WORLD,
IF I CAN PUT IT THAT WAY,
WHERE DEPARTED SPIRITS GO.
NOW, THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE
WHO BELIEVE THAT HADES IS
NOTHING MORE THAN THE GRAVE.
BUT THERE IS IN HEBREW
A WORD FOR GRAVE.
WHAT IT MEANS IS MORE THAN
THE GRAVE, BECAUSE IT IS
A PLACE THAT WELCOMES PEOPLE,
ACCORDING TO THE OLD
TESTAMENT; AND IT IS THERE
WHERE WE FIND THAT PEOPLE
COME AND THEY ARE FULLY
CONSCIOUS. NOW, THE OTHER
THING THAT'S IMPORTANT IS
THAT IT MUST HAVE TWO
COMPARTMENTS, BECAUSE ON
THE ONE HAND YOU HAVE
JACOB WHO GOES TO SHEOL.
YOU HAVE THE RIGHTEOUS;
YOU HAVE THE UNRIGHTEOUS;
THEY ALL GO TO SHEOL.
AND I THINK THAT THE RABBIS
IN ANCIENT TIMES WERE
CORRECT WHEN THEY SAID THAT
SHEOL HAS TWO COMPARTMENTS.
AND WHEN YOU GET TO THE NEW
TESTAMENT I BELIEVE THAT
JESUS CHRIST CONFIRMS THAT.
>>ANKERBERG: YEAH, LET ME
READ THE STORY THAT JESUS GAVE
TO US ABOUT SHEOL, THIS IS
A REAL STORY. IN LUKE 16
IT'S TALKING ABOUT THE RICH
MAN AND LAZARUS. JESUS SAYS,
"NOW THE POOR MAN
[THAT'S LAZARUS] DIED AND
WAS CARRIED AWAY BY THE ANGELS
TO ABRAHAM'S BOSOM."
EXPLAIN THAT.
"AND THE RICH MAN ALSO DIED
AND WAS BURIED.
AND THE RICH MAN IN HADES,
HE LIFTED UP HIS EYES, BEING
IN TORMENT, AND SAW ABRAHAM
FAR AWAY AND LAZARUS IN HIS
BOSOM. AND HE CRIED OUT
AND SAID, 'FATHER ABRAHAM,
HAVE MERCY ON ME AND SEND
LAZARUS SO THAT HE MAY DIP
THE TIP OF HIS FINGER IN
WATER AND COOL OFF MY TONGUE;
FOR I AM IN AGONY IN THIS
FLAME.'" NOW, THIS IS JESUS
TALKING. "BUT ABRAHAM SAID,
'CHILD, REMEMBER THAT DURING
YOUR LIFE YOU RECEIVED
YOUR GOOD THINGS AND LIKEWISE
LAZARUS, BAD THINGS.
BUT NOW HE IS BEING
COMFORTED HERE AND YOU ARE
IN AGONY.'" AND THEN HE SAID,
"'BESIDES ALL THIS, BETWEEN
US AND YOU THERE IS A GREAT
CHASM FIXED SO THAT THOSE
WHO WISH TO COME OVER FROM
HERE TO YOU WILL NOT BE
ABLE, AND THAT NONE MAY
CROSS OVER FROM THERE TO US.'
AND HE SAID, 'THEN I BEG YOU,
FATHER, THAT YOU SEND HIM
TO MY FATHER'S HOUSE,
FOR I HAVE FIVE BROTHERS,
IN ORDER THAT HE MAY WARN
THEM SO THAT THEY WILL NOT
ALSO COME TO THIS PLACE OF
TORMENT.' BUT ABRAHAM SAID,
'THEY HAVE MOSES AND
THE PROPHETS, LET THEM HEAR
THEM.' BUT HE SAID, 'NO,
FATHER ABRAHAM! BUT IF SOMEONE
GOES TO THEM FROM THE DEAD,
THEN THEY WILL REPENT.'
BUT HE SAID TO THEM,
'IF THEY DO NOT LISTEN
TO MOSES AND THE PROPHETS
THEY WILL NOT BE PERSUADED
EVEN IF SOMEONE RISES FROM
THE DEAD.'" ERWIN, EXPLAIN
WHAT JESUS IS TEACHING HERE
IN THIS STORY.
>>LUTZER: JOHN, THIS IS
A VERY SOBERING STORY, AND
EVERYONE SHOULD LISTEN VERY
CAREFULLY. AND I'M SO GLAD
THAT YOU READ IT.
BUT NOTICE THIS: FIRST OF
ALL, THE MAN IS FULLY
CONSCIOUS. I MEAN,
HE CAN THINK; HE CAN FEEL;
HE CAN SPEAK. ALL OF
HIS SENSES ARE WORKING.
AND HE'S IN TORMENT AND
HE WANTS SOME WATER.
AND THE MOST SOBERING
THOUGHT THAT COULD EVER
CROSS OUR MINDS TODAY IS
THAT NOW, 2000 YEARS LATER,
HE STILL DOES NOT HAVE
HIS DRINK OF WATER. HADES IS
GOING TO BE A PLACE OF TORMENT
AS HE MENTIONED. THE OTHER
THING ABOUT IT IS, YOU'LL
NOTICE THAT HIS ETERNITY WAS
FIXED. HE ASKED THE QUESTION
AS TO WHETHER OR NOT
HE COULDN'T PASS THIS GULF
AND WHETHER OR NOT
LAZARUS WOULD BE ABLE TO BRING
HIM SOME WATER. AND ABRAHAM
CLARIFIED, "NO, BETWEEN US
THERE'S A GULF FIXED AND
YOU CAN'T COME TO US AND
WE CAN'T COME TO YOU."
DO YOU REMEMBER DANTE WHEN
HE WROTE HIS BOOK ABOUT
HELL? ACROSS THE DOOR OF HELL
HE SAID IS WRITTEN "ABANDON
ALL HOPE, YE WHO ENTER HERE."
NOW, ANOTHER THING, VERY
QUICKLY; I THINK THAT, THAT
MAN IN HADES KNEW THAT
HIS SENTENCE WAS JUST.
YOU'LL NOTICE THAT
HE DOESN'T COMPLAIN AND SAY
THAT "IT'S UNFAIR THAT
I'M HERE." BUT, MOST
IMPORTANTLY, HE KNEW EXACTLY
WHAT HE SHOULD HAVE DONE
TO AVOID THIS PLACE.
HE SAID, "GO BACK AND TELL
MY BROTHERS THAT THEY MIGHT
REPENT SO THAT THEY WILL NOT
COME TO THIS SAME PLACE OF
TORMENT." SO THERE HE IS.
AND MORE SOBERING, AND
I'M SURE THAT WE'LL HAVE TO
DISCUSS THIS ON ANOTHER
SHOW, IS THE FACT THAT HADES
AT THE END OF TIME IS THROWN
INTO HELL. SO HADES IS NOT YET
THE FINAL HELL, BUT STILL IS
A PLACE OF TORMENT.
>>ANKERBERG: PEOPLE THAT ARE
LISTENING SAY, "I DON'T WANT
TO GO THERE. I DON'T WANT
TO GO TO HELL WHEN HADES IS
THROWN INTO HELL. I DON'T WANT
TO BE IN TORMENT.
HOW DO I KNOW FOR SURE THAT
GOD WILL TAKE ME TO HEAVEN?"
>>LUTZER: WELL, THE GOOD
NEWS IS THAT WHEN JESUS DIED
ON THE CROSS, HIS DEATH AND
RESURRECTION WAS A SACRIFICE
FOR US. AND IF WE PUT
OUR TRUST IN JESUS,
HE'S THE SAVIOR WHO WIPES
AWAY OUR SIN, DECLARES US
TO BE RIGHTEOUS, AND BRINGS US
TO THE FATHER. SO IF GOD
IS WORKING IN YOUR HEART
TODAY, WOULD YOU TRUST CHRIST
RIGHT WHERE YOU ARE AND
TELL HIM THAT YOU WANT HIM
TO BE YOUR SAVIOR,
YOUR SUBSTITUTE?
HE GIVES US THE AUTHORITY TO
BECOME HIS CHILDREN.
>>ANKERBERG: TREMENDOUS
WORD. FOLKS, WE'RE JUST
GETTING STARTED. NEXT WEEK
WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THE IMPORTANT TOPIC IN
CONNECTION WITH THIS OF
HOW TO OVERCOME THE FEAR
OF DEATH. SOME OF YOU,
YOU FEAR DEATH EVERY DAY.
HOW DO YOU DEAL WITH THAT?
HOW DOES GOD GIVE US
ENCOURAGEMENT ABOUT THAT?
THAT'S OUR TOPIC NEXT WEEK,
SO I HOPE THAT
YOU'LL JOIN US.
>>ANNOUNCER: STAY TUNED FOR
SCENES FROM NEXT WEEK'S
PROGRAM.
>>ANNOUNCER: IF YOU WOULD LIKE
TO HAVE ALL THE INFORMATION IN
OUR NEW SERIES, "WHAT WILL
HAPPEN TO YOU ONE MINUTE AFTER
YOU DIE?" ALL 4 TELEVISION
PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE ON DVD
FOR A GIFT OF $49.
WHAT INFORMATION HAS GOD GIVEN
TO US SO THAT WE CAN OVERCOME
OUR FEAR OF DEATH?
WHAT WILL HAPPEN THE MOMENT
YOU MAKE THE TRANSITION FROM
LIFE, TO DEATH, TO HEAVEN?
AND WHAT ABOUT THE DEATH OF
INFANTS? WHEN WE GET TO HEAVEN
WILL MY CHILD KNOW ME?
WHAT IS HAPPENING TO THEM NOW?
ALL 4 TELEVISION PROGRAMS IN
THIS SERIES ARE AVAILABLE ON
DVD FOR A GIFT OF $49.
THEN WE TAPED A SECOND SERIES
CALLED, "WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO
YOU ONE MINUTE AFTER YOU
DIE?" PART 2, WHERE WE ANSWER
THE QUESTIONS: FOR THOSE WHO
ARE CHRISTIANS, WHAT WILL
HEAVEN BE LIKE YOU'RE FIRST
HOUR IN GLORY? FOR THOSE WHO
HAVE NOT BELIEVED IN CHRIST,
THE DESCENT INTO GLOOM:
WHAT WILL HELL BE LIKE?
IS GOD REALLY IN CONTROL OF
HOW AND WHEN YOU DIE?
WHAT ABOUT CHRISTIANS WHO
COMMIT SUICIDE?
WILL THEY BE IN HEAVEN?
AND HOW CAN YOU HAVE COMPLETE
ASSURANCE YOU ARE GOING TO
HEAVEN WHEN YOU DIE?
ALL 4 TELEVISION PROGRAMS IN
THIS SERIES, ARE AVAILABLE ON
DVD FOR A GIFT OF $49.
THEN WE ARE MAKING AVAILABLE
TWO OTHER SERIES WITH
DR. LUTZER.
FIRST, "WHERE DO WE GO FROM
HERE?" IN WHICH HE DOCUMENTS
5 DISTURBING CULTURAL TRENDS
THAT MAY BE IRREVERSIBLE
UNLESS GOD STEPS IN;
AND SECOND, "FAITH AT
THE BREAKING POINT" -
5 UNSHAKEABLE BIBLICAL TRUTHS
CHRISTIANS CAN HANG ON TO IN
A WORLD OF CHAOS AND DECLINE.
EACH OF THESE SERIES IS
AVAILABLE FOR $39.
AND FINALLY, IF YOU WISH TO
ORDER ALL 4 OF THESE SERIES,
CONTAINING 14 HALF HOUR
TELEVISION PROGRAMS, THEY ARE
AVAILABLE TOGETHER IN
A SPECIAL PACKAGE FOR ONLY
$100 U.S. THOSE OF YOU LIVING
IN AMERICA OR CANADA,
YOU MAY ORDER THIS PROGRAMS
BY CALLING US AT
1-800-805-3030.
THAT'S 1-800-805-3030.
IF YOU LIVE IN OTHER
COUNTRIES, YOU MAY ORDER
THESE PROGRAMS AT OUR WEBSITE
AT JASHOW.ORG.
NEXT WEEK ON
THE JOHN ANKERBERG SHOW:
>>DR. ERWIN LUTZER: I REALLY
DO BELIEVE THAT WE GO FROM
THIS LIFE TO THE NEXT LIFE
WITHOUT A BREAK IN
CONSCIOUSNESS.
>>ANNOUNCER: AND TO LEARN
HOW TO START A RELATIONSHIP
WITH JESUS CHRIST GO TO
OUR WEBSITE AT JASHOW.ORG
AND CLICK ON:
"PRAY TO ACCEPT JESUS CHRIST
AS YOUR SAVIOR."